Kubecost docs (#2973)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/ksphere/kommander/1.1.0-beta/centralized-cost-monitoring/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Centralized Cost Monitoring
title: Centralized Cost Monitoring
menuWeight: 7
beta: true
excerpt: Monitoring costs of all managed clusters with Kubecost
---

> [Kubecost][https://docs.kubecost.com/] running on Kommander provides centralized cost monitoring for all managed clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubecost][https://docs.kubecost.com/], running on Kommander, provides centralized cost monitoring for all managed clusters.
```

> [Kubecost][https://docs.kubecost.com/], running on Kommander, provides centralized cost monitoring for all managed clusters.

Reviewer 2: FYI - I'll add this change for linking @gracedo @cmastr 
```
[Kubecost](https://docs.kubecost.com/), running on Kommander, provides centralized cost monitoring for all managed clusters.
```

> [Kubecost](https://docs.kubecost.com/), running on Kommander, provides centralized cost monitoring for all managed clusters.

Reviewer 2: To open this in a new tab fyi - @cmastr @russurquhart1 
```suggestion
<a href="https://docs.kubecost.com/" target="_blank">Kubecost</a>, running on Kommander, provides centralized cost monitoring for all managed clusters.
```

> This feature is provided by default in every Kommander cluster and provides a centralized view of Kubernetes resource spend on all managed clusters. By default, up to 15 days of cost metrics are retained, with no backup to an external store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature, installed by default in every Kommander cluster, provides a centralized view of Kubernetes resources used on all managed clusters. By default, up to 15 days of cost metrics are retained, with no backup to an external store.
```

## Centralized Costs

> The Kommander cluster collects cost metrics remotely from each managed cluster using Thanos. An overview of cost by workspace and project is shown in the Kommander UI on the respective pages. Further cost analysis and details can be found in the Kubecost UI running on Kommander, that can be accessed at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kommander cluster collects cost metrics remotely, using Thanos, from each managed cluster. An overview of cost, by workspace and project, is shown in the respective Kommander UI pages. Further cost analysis and details are found in the Kubecost UI running on Kommander, at:
```

```
https://<CLUSTER_URL>/ops/portal/kommander/kubecost/detail.html#&agg=cluster
```

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>It takes at least 3 hours for each managed cluster to generate sufficient cost data to be aggregated and presented in the UI.</p>

> Managed clusters are distinguished by a monitoring ID, that is used to identify clusters in Kubecost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify clusters in Kubecost, managed clusters are distinguished by a monitoring ID.
```

The monitoring ID corresponds to the kube-system namespace UID of the cluster.

> To find a cluster's monitoring ID, go to the **Clusters** tab on the Kommander UI, in the relevant workspace:

Reviewer 2: does there need to be a comma after `tab on the Kommander UI, `
Instead being just 
go to the **Clusters** tab on the Kommander UI in the relevant workspace
?

Author: @russurquhart1

Reviewer 3: no comma.

> To find a cluster's monitoring ID, you can go to the Clusters tab on the Kommander UI (in the relevant workspace):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find a cluster's monitoring ID, go to the **Clusters** tab on the Kommander UI, in the relevant workspace:
```

```
https://<CLUSTER_URL>/ops/portal/kommander/ui/#/clusters
```

> Select `View Details` on the managed cluster card, and find the monitoring ID under `Monitoring ID (clusterId)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **View Details** on the managed cluster card, and find the monitoring ID under **Monitoring ID (clusterId)**.
```

> You can also search or filter by monitoring IDs on the Clusters page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also search or filter by monitoring IDs on the **Clusters** page.
```

> Alternatively, you can run a kubectl command, **using the correct cluster's context or kubeconfig**, to look up the cluster's kube-system namespace UID to determine which cluster the costs correspond to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can run the following  kubectl command, **using the correct cluster's context or kubeconfig**, to look up the cluster's kube-system namespace UID and determine the cluster with the corresponding costs.
```

```bash
$ kubectl get namespace kube-system -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}'
```

### Grafana dashboards

> There is also a set of Grafana dashboards with cost metrics that are installed to the centralized Grafana UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A set of Grafana dashboards with cost metrics are installed to the centralized Grafana UI:
```

```
https://<CLUSTER_URL>/ops/portal/kommander/monitoring/grafana
```

> These dashboards provide a global view of accumulated costs from all managed clusters.

Reviewer 2: @gracedo 
After looking at grafana, we could probably just add a note about how the user will need to select the 
Kubecost cluster metrics or the Cluster cost & utilization metrics, and the like dashboards on grafana, as cost is not automatically set up on the grafana dashboard upon going to that link.

```suggestion
These dashboards provide a global view of accumulated costs from all managed clusters. From the nav in the above Grafana dashboard, you can select the Kubecost cluster metrics, or the Cluster cost & utilization metrics to view these dashboards.
```

Author: Used this sentence instead:
```
From the nav in Grafana, you can find these dashboards by selecting those tagged with `cost`, `metrics`, and `utilization`.
```
